Well we've come a long way we're now to the point where we can bring our blender game character into
unity to do that all we really need is just that blender scene filed right here that blend file.
I can take this file and just click and drag it right into the assets window of unity and it'll think
a bit and there it is.
So what it's done is actually opened up a blender in the background used Blender's own FDX converter
to convert the file to SBX and copied it here into the assets folder in our unity project folder.
So now we need to work on the import settings.
So I'm going to click on this file right here and you can see over here in the inspector we get a lot
of information that we can adjust for importing our character.
Now we've got information over here for the model for the rig and for animations I think for the model
and the rig.
I'm going to go ahead and leave it at the defaults.
If this character were more standard in other words if it were in a t pose I might try and change to
the humanoid setting here instead of generic and try and set it up so that the mechanism animation system
in unity could control it better and we'd have more options.
But frankly I don't think it's going to work.
So I'm not going to use that.
So let's go over here to the animations part and the inspector.
And here's where we're going to define the individual clips that we created we created an Idol a run
and a jump pose.
And we're going to define those here.
Now you can see Blender's already got some generic or default clips from 0 to 1 0 9 because that's the
range.
It found keyframes in.
So it's already kind of created though is going to change or delete these.
But I wanted to show you down here if you click on this little arrow you get kind of what's inside this
object.
And if you scroll down here like this you've got action and default take.
And over here you've got action and default take this right here.
These are the animation clips that we'll be using when we want to trigger the animations on and off.
So we need to modify or create new animation clips that match our character and have them appear down
here.
So let's take a look at this first default take.
Let's make this idle I'm just going to click here and change the name and call this idle and the frame
range that we found back in Blendr was frame 2 to 13.
And oh no that's the runs used me when you want because you can see he's changed to the run.
Let's do the idle for us.
Let's go 23 to 81.
Let's do that there.
Now he's in that idle pose and this is a looping animation so I'll go ahead and say loop time and turn
on Lupo's here and then I'm going to scroll down and I'm going to click Apply Oh it looks like I put
13 instead of 23.
I'm sorry.
Let me do that 23 and hit apply.
And now we can hit play here and we can see him going through his idle animation here he goes OK so
we know that that's going to work.
That's good.
And you can see over here that this animation clip has been changed from default take to idle.
All right.
That's good.
So let's go back up here and let's define a new clip.
I'm going to go ahead and select the action clip and just delete it.
I'll hit the minus key here we don't need that.
So now we can create a new one with the plus right here.
And let's call this one run and for this one now it's going to be two to 13.
And we go and it as well is a looping animation so I'll turn these on.
We can always hit play here just to test it out and he looks pretty good there.
And then I'll go ahead and click apply.
All right.
Good.
Now we've got the run animation clip over here as well as the idle.
Let's do the last one which is the jump all create a new clip.
Change the name to jump.
And this one I have from 1 0 1 right here 2 1 0 5.
I think that now this I'm going to go ahead and leave as a single clip instead of loop time I'm going
to just call this a single clip.
I don't want it to loop while he's in the air.
I want it to kind of transition into this single four frame clip and then transition out as he comes
down.
So I'm going to go ahead and leave the loop time off and I'll come over here and click Apply all right.
So now we have our run jump and idle animations here.
Good.
So that is all inside this character object here.
Now to continue setting up our character let's go ahead and just drag him out into the scene.
I'll just click here and drag him into the scene and there he is now going to zero out his transformation
over here and the inspector just type 0 into the X Y and Z position fields.
So now he's in the center of the grid and we go.
I think I could also rotate the light here so it's shining on the front of him instead of just on the
back.
At least for now so I'll click the light go to the rotate tool and just rotate that light around like
that.
You can see him a little better.
All right so now let's get the textures on him.
When we dragged him in from Blender we got all of these materials coming in from blender as well we
got the character material we got the eyes we got the hammer and this here says checker But you know
what I bet this is I bet that's the shield.
All right so now what we can do is we can bring our textures in and assign them to the various slots
in our material.
So if I select this character material you can see we've got a slot here for Al-Bayda or the color.
We've got a slot for the normal map and we've got a slot for the ambient occlusion So we're going to
use these to put our textures in.
I go ahead and come back to the assets window and create a new folder and call this textures and I'll
open that up and let's go find our textures here.
So there was our scene here is our textures.
So we've got the ambient occlusion color and normal of our character.
I'll go ahead and bring those in.
And we've got the eyes for the character.
We've got the ambient occlusion and the color of the hammer.
Oh and the normal bring those in and we've got the color and the normal for the shield I'll bring those
in right so we have all of our textures in there.
Now we can do is we can choose our character we can come over here to the hierarchy and spin the little
triangle down and we can choose the various objects within this character objects so maybe the low poly
character first here is that Shater or material right here.
So I'll scroll down and we can take the color for the character into the bedo we can take the normal
map into the normal map slot and we always have to click fix.
Now to mark it as a normal map and we take the ambient occlusion of the occlusions slot and we go areas
don't look too bad.
Let's bring the eyes in them and select one of the eyes open up the material and let's drag the color
into the albedo
select the hammer and do the same thing for this color.
Normal and occlusion all it's fixed the normal map here.
And then the shield looks like the shield
and take these and so here it is a shield color and normal.
There we go.
All right.
He's good to go now.
So the purpose of bringing this character in here in the first place was to be able to control them.
So we're going to need a character controller.
So I'm going to select this character here and come over here to add component and the component we
want is a character control or something to go to physics and select character controller.
There it is.
Now we need to adjust this character controller this capsule here so it fits around our character and
to do that I'm going to go to an orthographic view I'm going to click the z axis right here and then
I'm going to click this instead of front perspective and switch this to an ISO or orthographic.
And now let's just take this capsule and with the y axis for the center of the capsule I'm just going
to click and drag on the y axis and move this up.
Maybe something like that.
Make sure it's on the ground there.
Yeah.
And I don't need it quite this wide.
Let me try and bring the radius down some like so yeah.
So it may be encompasses his ears and let's tumble around and make sure he's OK here.
Yeah that looks like it's pretty good.
So now that we have our character controller on our character we also need an animation controller or
an animator controller and that's going to go right into this slot.
Here you can see I've got the character selected in the hierarchy and this slot right here needs an
animator controller.
That's how we're going to define what animations are playing at any particular time.
So to create that I just want to come down here into the assets window right click choose create and
come down here and choose animator controller.
And there we go.
So what I can do is I can call this I can call this really anything I'll call this player control or
I'll select that character and then I'll click and drag this guy right over here into that slot and
then we go.
Now what that does for us is if we go over here to the animator tab now if you do not have this animator
tab what you can do is come up here to a window and click on animator and that will open up that window
for you and then you can drag it and dock it here in this view if you want.
Now you can move around in the animator by pressing alt middle mouse button here if you need to move
the view around.
Now what I can do is open up this character again and scroll down to my animation clips and let's just
drag this idle clip right into the animator and it automatically senses the first one we dragged in
it automatically hooks up to the entry and therefore if we go back here and if we turn on our game just
by clicking the play button up here we're going to switch back to the scene now you can see that he
is going through his idle animation.
So just without doing any coding so far we've been able to get the idle animation looping and running
when we turn on our game.
All right.
So in the next video what we'll do is we'll add the other clips to the animator and we'll define a parameter
that will allow us to switch from one animation cycle to the other.
So I'll see you then.